chore: cut v0.88.0 (#8263)
prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator: CHANGELOG.md

* [FEATURE] Add `apiType` field to `Jira` receiver in `Alertmanager` config secret. #8218
* [FEATURE] Add `timeout` field to `PagerDuty` receiver in `AlertmanagerConfig` CRD. #8162
* [FEATURE] Add `timeout` field to `Slack` receiver in `AlertmanagerConfig` CRD. #8161
* [ENHANCEMENT] Use `minReadySeconds` to set `--dispatch.start-delay` in `Alertmanager`. #8177 #8201
* [ENHANCEMENT] Expose native histograms in operator metrics. #8194
* [ENHANCEMENT] Add `NoSelectedResources` reason to status conditions. #8124
* [ENHANCEMENT] Add `enableHttp2` and `followRedirects` fields to HTTP configuration for `Probe` CRD. #8112
* [ENHANCEMENT] Add CEL validations for `DaemonSet` mode in `PrometheusAgent` CRD (requires the `PrometheusAgentDaemonSetFeature` featuregate). #7881
* [ENHANCEMENT] Improve validation for `Pushover`, `PagerDuty` and `VictorOps` receivers in `AlertmanagerConfig` CRD. #8239 #8113 #8220
* [ENHANCEMENT] Add `apiURL` validation for `WeChat`, `OpsGenie` and `Telegram` receivers in `AlertmanagerConfig` CRD. #8196 #8206 #8199
* [ENHANCEMENT] Validate URL fields in `AlertmanagerConfig` receivers (`MSTeams`, `Webhook`). #8231 #8125

> * [ENHANCEMENT] Validate URL fields in `Alertmanager` configuration secret (`WeChat`, `Telegram`, `Pushover` receivers). #7977 #8233 #8232

Reviewer: Hi @slashpai I think https://github.com/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator/pull/8102 is missing on the release notes - also relates to https://github.com/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator/issues/8260

## 0.88.0 / 2026-01-09

* [CHANGE] Use narrower selectors for StatefulSet informers in `Alertmanager` and `ThanosRuler` controllers. It is recommended to upgrade from `v0.85.0` (at least). #8246
* [CHANGE] Reject `EC2/Lightsail` SD for Prometheus >= 3.8.0 in `ScrapeConfig` CRD. #8175
* [FEATURE] Add `podManagementPolicy` field to `Prometheus`, `PrometheusAgent`, `Alertmanager` and `ThanosRuler` CRDs. #8119
* [FEATURE] Add `updateStrategy` field to `Prometheus`, `PrometheusAgent`, `Alertmanager` and `ThanosRuler` CRDs. #8202

> * [FEATURE] Add `scope` and `workloadIdentity` fields to `AzureAD` remote write configuration. #8240 #7998

Reviewer 2: https://github.com/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator/pull/7998 is a different feature

* [FEATURE] Add support for PrometheusRule fields `groupLabels` and `queryOffset` in `ThanosRuler`. #8137
* [FEATURE] Add status subresource for `AlertmanagerConfig` CRD (requires the `StatusForConfigurationResources` feature gate). #7999
* [FEATURE] Add `slackAppToken` and `slackAppUrl` fields to Alertmanager global config for slack app support. #8238
* [FEATURE] Add `incident.io` receiver support to `Alertmanager` config secret. #8190 #8245 #8228
* [FEATURE] Add `Mattermost` receiver support to `Alertmanager` config secret. #8188
* [FEATURE] Add `apiType` field to Jira receiver in `Alertmanager` config secret. #8218
* [FEATURE] Add `timeout` field to PagerDuty receiver in `AlertmanagerConfig` CRD. #8162
* [FEATURE] Add `timeout` field to Slack receiver in `AlertmanagerConfig` CRD. #8161
* [ENHANCEMENT] Use `minReadySeconds` to set `--dispatch.start-delay` in `Alertmanager`. #8177 #8201
* [ENHANCEMENT] Expose native histograms in operator metrics. #8194
* [ENHANCEMENT] Add `NoSelectedResources` reason to status conditions. #8124
* [ENHANCEMENT] Unify HTTP configuration for `ServiceMonitor` CRD. #8139

> * [ENHANCEMENT] Unify HTTP configuration for `Probe` CRD. #8112

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [ENHANCEMENT] Add `enableHttp2` and `followRedirects` fields to HTTP configuration for `Probe` CRD. #8112
```

> * [ENHANCEMENT] Add CEL validations for DaemonSet mode in `PrometheusAgent` CRD. #7881

Reviewer 2: should we mention that it requires the feature gate?

> * [ENHANCEMENT] Add api and semantic validations for `Pushover`, `PagerDuty` and `VictorOps` receivers in `AlertmanagerConfig` CRD. #8239 #8113 #8220

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [ENHANCEMENT] Improve validation for `Pushover`, `PagerDuty` and `VictorOps` receivers in `AlertmanagerConfig` CRD. #8239 #8113 #8220
```
